Dee: Sometime between five and six AM on Monday, September 23rd, a high school freshman decided to go on a job with her dog. Sometime between six and six thirty, she'd come to make a panicked 911 call.

No one knows exactly how long Autumn Julian's body was in that lake. If we take the word of a traumatized ninth grader, it was long enough that her skin was big bitten and blue-tinged and bloated. Long enough that she'd originally mistaken her hair- once blonde and straightened to perfection- for some kind of fallen nest. Perhaps most notably though, it had been long enough that Autumn Julian, head cheerleader, straight-A student, former valedictorian- was not identified until officers arrived on the scene. One of them knew her father. Everyone in town knew Autumn Julian but somehow, that lake made her almost unrecognizable.

The Julian family buried her a few days later. The casket was closed. Anyone who had known Autumn would attest that that was the last possible way they'd imagined saying their goodbyes. They neglected to investigate further because isn't that how it always goes? A teenager full of potential, snuffed out in an instant. A young woman just entering the world, unceremoniously ripped from it.

Above the lake they found her body in is a trail. A cliff. They announced the blunt force trauma publicly because they thought it'd comfort us to imagine her pretty little head slamming against rock before she hit the water. Drowning is a far worse way to go. She'd gone on a walk. She'd enjoyed the scenery. She'd slipped. She'd died. It was a simple story.

Except, listener, this podcast wouldn't exist if that was true.

You'll hear sometimes that true crime is oversaturated. That we retell the same stories over and over again to revel in the tragedies of others. But you won't find Autumn Julian's story anywhere else because unlike the previous cases we've talked about here, this one's personal. Autumn and I are from the same little hometown. We went to the same high school. Hell, we even grew up on the same street.

This was real, this was permanent, and this was not an accident.

Autumn Julian was murdered. And I'm going to be the one who proves it.