For as long as he could remember, Lenny thought of himself as different. Not in an obvious way you could point to. He didn’t look markedly different from other people or behave in ways that drew attention to himself. Lenny’s difference was rooted in his sense of being off-center, of seeing the world from outside the frame.

As a child, this sense was inchoate and unnamed. “Why do you draw people upside down?” a teacher would ask.

“I don’t know,” little Lenny would answer sheepishly. Because he didn’t. Later in life, with education and experience, he would describe himself with words that fit his circumstances. When his difference won him praise or affection, he might view himself as creative or quirky. If a romantic partner ended the relationship claiming he was too weird, then neurotic or screwed-up might seem the best fit.

Interwoven among the good and the bad times were periods of self-interrogation where he would question whether this whole “I’m different thing” was a myth to protect himself from feelings of inadequacy and a lack of self-confidence.

Do I really diverge from the norm, or do I just want to believe I am unique? Don’t most people feel a sense of me-ness that sets them apart? If so, doesn’t that mean my sense of difference is no difference at all? That I’m just another ‘Joe’ wishing to be special? On the other hand, might this very analysis be a sign that I am different? After all, how many people raise such questions or give them serious consideration? Or am I grasping at straws, trying to make something out of nothing? But maybe—

And so it went, on and on in an increasingly dizzying spiral of questions and counter-questions until he became too exhausted to maintain his train of thought.

“I should write this stuff down,” he mutters as he gets up from his chair and heads toward the refrigerator. But he doesn’t, despite knowing that within the next few minutes these thoughts, which seemed so insightful, would be forgotten. Instead, he browses the shelves hoping to find a surprising morsel to eat, another unlikely prospect since he knows what is there.

Lenny Isaacson has lived in this condo a little over fourteen years, ever since he and his spouse, Sally, separated and eventually divorced. They were married a long time: twenty-eight mostly discordant years. Afterward, with the benefit of distance and hindsight, he found neither the duration nor quality of the relationship surprising.

They came from starkly different backgrounds. Sally was from Jackson, Mississippi, the only child in an ever-aspiring upper-middle-class family. Her father was an attorney more interested in pursuing big paydays and winning the favor of the local gentry than seeking justice. Her mother was a housewife, pretending to be a lady of the manor. Sally’s childhood was spent in a large antebellum-style home with extensive gardens dotted with magnolia and live oak trees sheathed in Spanish moss. Behind the house was a swimming pool. Raised in the manner of a debutante, she was instructed in the rules of social etiquette and the traditional Christian morals of Southern belles.

Lenny grew up in New York City, the son of working-class, Jewish, Eastern European immigrants. His family—mother, father, and younger sister—occupied a two-bedroom apartment on the third floor of a five-story tenement populated primarily by other recent immigrant families. The building was located on a wide boulevard teeming with cars, buses, and people. Lenny’s childhood environment was concrete and asphalt with a few trees, bushes, and postage stamp lawns constituting ‘nature.’ The only pool he knew was Barney’s Pool and Billiards Hall down the block.